#Development Journal
Theo Knoll

##February 3, 2016
During this week I began to focus on the basics of my Unity game. I created my first project in Unity and followed along on the Roll a Ball tutorial. By using this tutorial, I began to learn how to use Rigid Body as a movement function. I also learned that shapes in Unity each have specific sizes and when you create objects it is often smart to reset them to origin. In addition, this tutorial showed me the basics of C # on Unity, and showed me how to access the Unity Help Page to find different commands that come preexisting on Unity (like RigidBody, Rotate, etc.). I also learned about how 3D things work in these types of games, and how the term transform relates not only to x, y, and z axis but also rotation. My platformer game will most likely be using many of the things that this game taught me. One of the less basic but still very important things I learned about was how to make objects able to be picked up and I gained knowledge about triggers, which are objects that toggle other events within games.

##February 12, 2016
During this week I finished the Roll a Ball tutorial. In one of the tutorial videos, I learned how to incorporate text into Unity games. For the sake of the game the tutorial was making, the text was used to display how many objects you picked up, and also for when you have won the game after picking up all the objects. In the game I'm envisioning, text may not be important to the functionality, but for the sake of learning Unity and being able to create games in the future, it is good to know. Another thing that one of the tutorial videos taught me is how to build the game. I didn't realize it would be this easy, but all you have to do is select a platform which you want the game to be accessible on and then hit build and Unity will make a copy of it in a desired folder. I still need to figure out how to publish games online or make them available for download, but by using the build function if all else fails at least I could put the game on a flash drive and give it to my friends to download.

##February 19, 2016
This week I began a new tutorial to become more comfortable with Unity. It is the Space Shooter tutorial. From the beginning, this was a significantly more advanced tutorial than the Roll a Ball tutorial. The first thing that I learned from this tutorial was how to import assets into Unity games. Because one of my goals is to not spend money, I will most likely have to be creating my own assets when it comes time to create my 3D Platformer. The next thing I learned about from the tutorial are colliders. Colliders are cages which wrap around game objects to give the RigidBody a set volume. They cages are used to detect collisions within the game, and relate a lot with triggers (the Roll a Ball tutorial briefly touched on triggers but didn't mention how to create the colliders, this tutorial did.) One tip that the tutorial gave me was to use primitive colliders if possible, because mesh colliders are apparently perform less consistently, although it didn't dive into any specifics.

##February 26, 2016
This week will be a long journal, because I've found that by writing down what I learn I remember it better than just mindlessly walking myself through the tutorials, only to forget what I just learned. To start off this week, I began by continuing the Space Shooter tutorial. One video of this week taught me how to make backgrounds and effectively use textures. By using different texture types, you can allow your texture to be unaffected by lighting, which could be key in making a game attractive to the eye. It should also be noted that textures generally do better if they are moved far back from the game (this is in regards to 3D games played on a 2D plane (Like the Space Shooter game).) The next video I watched was about moving the player. Like the Roll a Ball tutorial, the movement in this game used the Rigidbody function. Through the tutorial I got much more comfortable with Rigidbody. In order to keep an object within certain bounds of the x, y, and z axis, you can use Mathf.Clamp. This tutorial also taught me what serializing is  (A way of storing information), and how to serialize classes you have made (this is done by putting [System.Serializable]; in the line above the class declaration). Unity needs properties serialized to view them in your inspector. The last thing this tutorial discussed was how to edit the rotation through scripting, which was simple so I won't go into more detail here. I watched one more tutorial this week, and it was related to shooting a beam from the ship. This particular video refreshed my knowledge of materials and prefabs, and had very simple coding to implement, which is good to practice as I have no previous experience with C Sharp.

##March 4, 2016
This week I didn't focus on any tutorials, as I decided I now know enough of Unity to begin actually developing my project. To start off the week I had to have Mr. Schreiber fix my GitHub, because I had made a change on the internet version when trying to upload my Formal Game Plan GitHub wouldn't let me push my files. After GitHub got working again I began to work on my Unity Game. The first thing I did was create a player object, which is a sphere. I added a material to the sphere to make it look nice. To create the ground I used a cube. This could be an issue because I'd rather not have to make a ton of different cubes to create the diverse terrain that I desire, but I'm not sure there is any way around it. After I started to set up the game, I attached a Rigidbody to my player to allow the player to be effected by physics.

##March 11, 2016
This week I began by adding more materials into my game. In my formal game plan I had specified certain powers for both the player and that platform based on the platform's color, so I added in a material for each power I had previously specified. After seeing how the black and white polka dots look, I decided that removing my that power or finding a different color for that power was necessary, because it didn't look good on the player or on the platform. I also began to create the first level. I need to figure out how to make different levels for Unity, and I need to find an easier way to make levels. Right now it is a tedious process of piecing together cube Game objects. I began to make some headway into my game later in the week. I made it so the camera will follow my player how I want it to, I added a script to my player to allow for movement, and I began working on getting a script which allows my player to jump. Currently, my jump command does not work. I haven't discovered the exact issue yet, but I believe it is because of my if statements not working correctly. I have if statements in place to prevent jumping when the player isn't touching the ground. I also attempted creating a script which restarts my game if the player falls off the platform. Unfortunately, this script has yet to work successfully either. In order to advance my knowledge of Unity, I also watched a few more tutorials on the Space Shooter game. A recent tutorial I watched taught me how to destroy game objects when they collide. This is very close to what I need for when the player falls off a platform, but not quite, because I need to restart the level, not just the kill the player.. Further down the line of tutorials this week, I learned how to add sounds into my game and after another tutorial about how to incoorperate a score text into the game, I learned how to end the game. This was exactly what I was looking for, and I am glad that I finished this tutorial series.

##March 18, 2016
This week was primarily focused on getting some more of the basics done within my game and on the first level. I made a command that successfully allows the player to jump when on a platform and doesn't allow jumps if you aren't touching a platform, which is good. In terms of player movement, I got rid of the control for the player to move across the z axis, and I coded in a script to make the player constantly move forward at a good rate to make the game more like Run 2. You should't be able to control your forward velocity as the game is going because otherwise you could just stop and slow down over the course of the level, which in turn would make the game too simple. I'm still in the progress of making the first level, because currently the platforms are not a very good distance from each other, but I added more platforms to the first level to increase the length of the map and make the game more fun to play.

##March 25, 2016
I started off this week with some error fixing. I had encountered a problem with the jump command: sometimes you would press space while on a platform and the player wouldn't jump. I realized this must be due to one of the variables (boolean grounded) that I made to see if a player would be able to jump or not based on if it was touching the ground. What I hypothesized is that the player would go over slight bumps when platforms overlapped, and the Rigidbody component would cause the player to bounce up (this much was visible), which in turn would turn my variable grounded to false, but then when colliding with the platform again, for whatever reason, grounded wouldn't change back to true. I fixed this by adding in a new line of code which makes my game MUCH more enjoyable to play and much less frustrating. I finished the "first" level of my game, but I realized this level is much too hard for a first level, so I have made another level which will serve as the true first level, and the original level I have currently finished will serve as my second or third level instead. After finishing those two levels, I began designing a third level. Designing levels is rather easy, coding and adding in new features to the game is what takes a long time, but I believe that for my first 5 levels I will not be implementing any of the special platforms which I have thought of, so further coding will not be neccessary until after the next deliverable, so I am right on track in terms of deliverables.

##April 1, 2016